    Home
    News
    Sport
    Business
    Innovation
    Culture
    Travel
    Earth
    Video
    Live

China holds military drills around Taiwan as 'strong punishment'
10 hours ago
Kelly Ng in Singapore and Rupert Wingfield-Hayes in Taipei,BBC News
Reuters Members of Taiwan's Navy navigate onboard special operation boats during a drill part of a demonstration for the media, to show combat readiness ahead of the Lunar New Year holidays, on the waters near a military base in Kaohsiung, Taiwan January 31, 2024.Reuters
China has called its drills around Taiwan a "strong punishment" for "separatist acts"

China has started two days of military exercises around Taiwan, with its military calling them "strong punishment" for the self-ruled island's "separatist acts".

The drills come three days after the inauguration of President William Lai, who called on China to stop threatening the island and accept the existence of its democracy.

China sees Taiwan as a breakaway province that will eventually be under Beijing's control, but the island sees itself as distinct.

Taiwan's defence ministry condemned the Chinese drills as "irrational provocations".

Taipei dispatched naval, air, and ground forces to "defend the [island's] sovereignty", its defence ministry said.

Thursday's drills for the first time simulated a full-scale attack, Taiwanese military experts said, rather than an economic blockade.

The exercises took place all around the main island, and for the first time also targeted the Taipei-controlled islands of Kinmen, Matsu, Wuqiu and Dongyin which lie close to the Chinese coast, according to maps released by China's People's Liberation Army (PLA).

Drills show China really doesn't like Taiwan's new president

The drills also included a component to the east of Taiwan - the island's rugged east coast on the other side of a mountain range has long been its military redoubt.

Taiwan has built much of its hardened military infrastructure along this coast, including a large underground airbase inside a mountain near the city of Hualien. It is also close to Japan’s southern islands, and a natural resupply route.

By sending naval and air patrols to the east of Taiwan, China aims to show Taipei that its east is now exposed to Chinese attack, and to show the Americans that any effort to resupply or re-enforce Taiwan from the east is vulnerable to Chinese missile strikes and naval attack.

The PLA said its drills focused on joint sea-air combat-readiness patrols, precision strikes on key targets, and integrated operations inside and outside the island to test the "joint real combat capabilities" of its forces.

Taiwanese media cited military expert Chieh Chung saying the ongoing exercise is aimed at "simulating a full-scale armed invasion of Taiwan".
map

China has repeatedly rehearsed encircling Taiwan with fighter jets and navy ships over the past year. Taipei had reported an uptick in incursions into Taiwanese waters and airspace in the run-up to Mr Lai's inauguration.

China carried out its first “encirclement” operation in August 2022, following a historic visit by then US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, simulating a blockade of the main island of Taiwan with ships, aircraft and missile strikes.

The PLA said Thursday's drills were a "strong punishment for the separatist acts of Taiwan independence forces and a stern warning against the interference and provocation by external forces."

Meanwhile China's foreign ministry insisted the drills were a "necessary and legitimate move" to safeguard national sovereignty.

"I need to stress that Taiwan is an inalienable part of China's territory. This is both a fact based on history and the true status quo. This will not change in the future. Taiwan independence is doomed to fail," spokesman Wang Wenbin said.

In his inauguration address last Monday, Mr Lai called on China to "stop threatening Taiwan".

Beijing denounced the speech, with Foreign Minister Wang Yi describing Mr Lai as "disgraceful".

After Mr Lai's election victory last January, Beijing issued a statement insisting that "Taiwan is part of China". It has also repeatedly rebuffed Mr Lai's offers for talks.

Beijing has previously labelled Mr Lai a "separatist" and "troublemaker" over remarks he made in the past supporting Taiwanese independence.

Taiwan's defence ministry said the drills on Thursday "highlight [Beijing's] militaristic mentality".

"In recent years, the continuous harassment by Chinese aircraft and ships has significantly harmed global peace and stability," it said.

Taiwan’s presidential office has said it was “regrettable” to see China “using unilateral military provocations to threaten Taiwan's democracy and freedom”.

Meanwhile Taiwan's Mainland Affairs Council - which oversees relations with China - said Taiwan's aim of maintaining cross-strait peace has not changed.

"Beijing should understand that its intimidating tactics will not win hearts and minds," said spokesman Liang Wen-chieh.

While China and Taiwan remain trading partners, they no longer have a formal channel of communication and much of the world offers diplomatic recognition to China, but not Taiwan.

Analysts say Bejing’s claims have become far louder and unyielding under Xi Jinping, who has repeatedly stressed that “reunification” will happen - most recently in December, weeks before Taiwan’s election.

So far, China's military manoeuvres around Taiwan have fallen short of an invasion and stayed within a grey zone.

Analysts have told the BBC that grey zone warfare tactics are aimed at weakening an adversary over a prolonged period - and say that is exactly what China is trying to do with Taiwan.
China and Taiwan - the basics

    Why do China and Taiwan have poor relations? China sees the self-ruled island as a part of its territory and insists it should be unified with the mainland, by force if necessary. Taiwan sees itself as distinct
    How is Taiwan governed? The island has its own constitution, democratically elected leaders, and about 300,000 active troops in its armed forces
    Who recognises Taiwan? Only a few countries recognise Taiwan. Most recognise the Chinese government in Beijing instead. The US has no official ties with Taiwan but does have a law which requires it to provide the island with the means to defend itself

What's behind China-Taiwan tensions?
How China is fighting in the grey zone against Taiwan
Cat-and-mouse chase with China in hotly contested sea
Asia
China
Taiwan
Beijing
Related
Macron halts reform that sparked island 'insurrection'
3 hrs ago
World
China's drills show it really doesn't like Taiwan's new president
7 hrs ago
Asia
Indian activist Grace Banu wants more rights for the transgender community
8 hrs ago
India
More
13 hrs ago
Flag of Taiwan
What's behind China-Taiwan tensions?

China sees Taiwan as a breakaway province, but the self-ruled island sees itself as distinct.
Asia
1 day ago
Zhang Zhan
Chinese blogger who filmed Wuhan lockdown is free

Zhang Zhan spent four years in jail after providing critical coverage of the response to Covid-19.
Asia
2 days ago
A Mini Cooper S on the production line at BMW's final assembly plant in Cowley near Oxford, UK, on 11 September, 2023.
BMW and Jaguar used banned China parts - US probe

The car makers used parts made by a supplier banned over alleged links to Chinese forced labour.
Business
3 days ago
Hand of student writing Chinese characters
Knife attack in China primary school leaves two dead

Police say the female suspect allegedly used a fruit knife in the attack which left 10 others hurt.
China
3 days ago
Taiwan's President Lai Ching-te delivers his inaugural speech after being sworn into office during the inauguration ceremony at the Presidential Office Building in Taipei on May 20, 2024.
'Stop threatening us', Taiwan's new president tells China

He urged Beijing to replace confrontation with dialogue, shortly after being sworn in on Monday.
Asia

    Home
    News
    Sport
    Business
    Innovation
    Culture
    Travel
    Earth
    Video
    Live
    Audio
    Weather
    BBC Shop

    Terms of Use
    About the BBC
    Privacy Policy
    Cookies
    Accessibility Help
    Contact the BBC
    Advertise with us
    Do not share or sell my info
    Contact technical support

Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.



Let us know you agree to cookies

We use cookies to give you the best online experience.

Please let us know if you agree to all of these cookies.

    No, take me to settings